# Tactile sensing with artificial skin
## Master Research Project 2 - Maastricht University, DKE - 2021

**Description**: the DKE Swarm Lab we are developing bio-inspired humanoid robots with artificial skins that could lead to a new generation of prosthetics. This project focusses on two aspects of tactile sensing with artificial skin –**(1)** a sophisticated simulation model that mimics the robot as closely as possible and **(2)** an AI that correctly interprets the input it receives from the tactile sensors integrated into the artificial skin.

- **Simulation model (1)**: In this project we ask you to create a scalable simulation model that models interactions with and within the instrumented soft robot body to correctly predict the outputs of the sensors integrated into the artificial skin of the robot. The simulation model can start with a simple sheet of artificial skin but can be ultimately expanded to a full robot arm that is interacting with its environment or even a full humanoid robot body simulation.
- **AI  and  machine  learning  (2)**: In  addition  to  the  simulation  model,  a  classifier  should  be developed and trained so that the tactile interaction with the simulated robot body/skin can be correctly classified based on (simulated and actual) sensor readings .The purpose of the artificial intelligence will be to understand the type of tactile interaction, to fuse information of different sensors(properly respecting offsets and different quality of sensor readings), and to  identify  the  location  of  sensors  within  the  robot  body(keeping  in  mind  that  sensor placement is not following a perfect grid structure).Possible machine learning techniques involve architectures of deep  neural networks that need to  be  setup  in  such a way that efficient sensing and training of the AI becomes feasible. The project will be supported by members of the DKE Swarm Lab through the development of actual  robotic hardware. Probably towards  the second  project phase, test data from the artificial skin hardware that is being developed in the lab can be mapped back to the simulator to make the simulation more realistic. A promising classifier could possibly also be tested with real hardware, i.e. artificial skin. If there is interest and the COVID-19 safety guidelines allow it,some team members can join hardware experiments. But safety first.

**Supervisor(s):** Rico Möckel, Lucas Dahl
